---
title: Bowling with People Who Are Actually Interesting
author: Devon Zuegel
tags: ["utopianism", "cultural fragmentation"]
collection: posts
date_published: 2016-06-10
img: https://img.buzzfeed.com/buzzfeed-static/static/enhanced/webdr01/2013/5/23/16/enhanced-buzz-27537-1369339213-16.jpg
---

My earbuds are in nearly every waking moment that I'm not working or relaxing. Podcasts and audiobooks fill my once-silent hours of walking to class, getting ready in the morning, and waiting in lines. When I see someone I know heading towards me on the street, I usually keep my head down and walk a little faster so I don't have to interrupt the middle of a particularly good episode.

In my free time, I read essays by bloggers living around the world and spend time with almost exclusively my closest friends. I've never been a Stanford football game, and I don't understand the usage of "we" when fans discuss home team sports. The number of chance interactions I have with acquaintances and periphery friends has steadily decreased as I've hooked into the internet and opted out of the mainstream culture around me – after all, smalltalk is rarely as interesting as a podcasts.

[Robert Putnam is right](http://bowlingalone.com/) – we are opting out of mainstream culture. Civil engagement is at an all-time low, and national and local identity is fragmenting. Unlike our parents, my generation doesn't necessarily perceive our immediate physical surroundings as our community. "The nation is some lines on a map, some laws you follow. No one particularly cares about it," said Gwern in an essay entitled [*The Melancholy of Subculture Society*](https://www.gwern.net/The%20Melancholy%20of%20Subculture%20Society). Traditional cultural identities lose their meaning as physical location becomes increasingly irrelevant.

However, this shift is strengthening the social fabric rather than degrading it. Just as globalizing the marketplace of goods increases the choice, quality, and accessibility of consumption, globalizing the marketplace of ideas yields analogous gains from trade. We are no longer confined to the stale ideas of our local newspaper or our polemic uncle's close-minded political views — now we have tweets and blogs. A larger market gives us more options to choose from, and in turn we engage in better quality ideas. An internet connection is like going from a small high school to a large university. Maybe as a teenager you were the only one who folded origami in your hometown, but in college there's an entire club devoted to it, filled with members who can share their expertise and organically improve everyone's folding skills just by connecting with each other.

New channels of communication also enable richer conversations among the people with whom we're already close. When I discuss a challenging intellectual topic or personal issue with friends, we often intentionally move the conversation to Facebook chat. I find that writing my thoughts brings logical clarity and self-reflection that are easy to lose in fast-paced dialogue, and it enables me to detach from some emotional biases that degrade the quality of conversation.

Historically, cultural fragmentation has fallen along the lines of physical proximity. Traditional cultural identity is just a subtle form of in-group, out-group tribalism. It forms the foundation of social disorders such as racism and destructive nationalism and the countless atrocities humans have committed against each other over time. Social cleavages due to the results of geographical lotteries have divided people around the world and turned them against each other. Robert Putnam is right in his diagnosis that traditional social groups are declining as we become ever hooked into TV and the internet—  but I'd much rather have cultural fragmentation along lines of interests and ideas anyway.